path: tree/master/docs/
source: aircraftSettings.md

# Aircraft/Livery settings files
From version 1.1.9 onwards, the **787**: Aviator's Edition supports per-livery, and per-variant configurations, handled by settings files located in the root of the livery folder, and in the settings folder in the root of the aircraft folder.

## Global settings 
Global settings are stored in the ``./settings``[^1] folder. In this folder, you'll find 3 files: 
```
defaultGlobalSettings.json
defaultLiverySettings.json
globalSettings.json
```
If ``defaultGlobalSettings.json`` is missing, the aircraft __will crash on startup__. The other two files will be auto-generated by the plane if they are missing.
[^1]: For example, ``C:\X-Plane 11/Aircraft/Magknight787/settings/``

### defaultGlobalSettings.json
This file contains the default settings, both those that are stored globally and the default livery settings. The settings here __will be__ overwritten by the updater on each launch, so the file should not be edited. All other settings files override the settings of this file; it simply acts as a backup to these files.

### defaultLiverySettings.json
This file contains the settings for the default livery. As with all livery settings included with the aicraft, it will be overwritten by the updater during each minor or major release. We don't reccomend changing settings in this file.

## globalSettings.json
This file contains user settings, that are stored globally. This file won't be overwritten by the updater. Only settings that are defined below are able to be used by the settings system.
### Structure
```json
{
    "comments": [
        "This settings file covers all configurable aspects of the 787. Items in the 'defaultAirlineConfig' section are overridden by a settings/liverySettings.json file",
        "in the current livery, if it exists. If this does not exist, then these values are used. If a setting that is expected is not present here, then values from",
        "defaultGlobalSettings.json is used."
    ],
    "aircraftConfig": {
        "customCursorDisabled": false,
        "instantIrsAlign": false,
        "instantFuelLoad": false,
        "vatsim": false,
        "errorOverlays": true,
        "persistantFailures": false,
        "helpfulPointers": true,
        "sharedBaro": true,
        "useTiller": false,
        "useRollTiller": false,
        "startupWindow": true,
        "killCockpitGlass": false,
        "killSeats": false,
        "killCabinGlass": false,
        "rainEffect": false,
        "usePitchBrake": false,
        "use833": false,
        "pauseAtTod": false,
        "acarsRemoteServer": "http://www.hoppie.nl/acars/system/connect.html",
        "acarsEnabled": false,
        "acarsLogonCode": ""
    }
}
```

### comments
* This is an array of freetext, that is ignored by the aircraft when the file is loaded.

### aircraftConfig
* Contains settings that are imported to the aircraft's global settings table on load.

#### customCursorDisabled
* Default ``false``.
* Disables the custom cursor on the EFB/MFD
  
!!! bug
    Not fully implimented yet

#### instantIrsAlign
* Default ``false`` 
* Allows the IRS to align instantly

#### instantFuelLoad
* Default ``false``. 
* Causes fuel to load instantly
  
!!! warning
    Not implemented yet. Fuel always loads instantly (1.1.9)

#### vatsim
* Default ``false`` 
* Enables VATSIM mode. See [here](./vatsim) for more details

!!! warning "Legacy"
    VATSIM mode has been removed in the release version of 1.5.0 - it's functionality is mostly replaced by ACARS

#### errorOverlays
* Default ``true`` 
* Controls whether startup overlay and error overlays are enabled

#### persistantFailures
* Default ``false`` 
* Not implimented; for future use.

#### helpfulPointers
* Default ``true`` 
* Controls whether the helpful pointers popups are enabled.

#### New in 1.2.4: useTiller
* Default ``false``
* Controls whether the tiller axis is used for ground steering

#### New in 1.2.5: useRollTiller
* Default ``false``
* Controls whether the roll axis is used in place of the rudder for ground steering

#### New in 1.3.0: startupWindow
* Default ``false``
* Controls whether the first startup window opens
  
#### New in 1.4.2: killCockpitGlass
* Default ``false``
* Removes cockpit glass/reflections for improved performance on low-end systems
  
#### New in 1.4.2: pauseAtTod
* Default ``false``
* Pause at top-of-descent
  
#### New in 1.4.2: killCabinGlass
* Default ``false``
* Removes cabin glass/reflections for improved performance on low-end systems

#### New in 1.4.2: killSeats
* Default ``false``
* Removes cabin seats for improved performance on low-end systems

#### New in 1.4.2: rainEffect
* Default ``false``
* Enables libRain rain effects

!!! warning "libRain is not compatible with X-Plane 11.50 at this time"

#### fNew in 1.4.6: usePitchBrake
* Default ``false``
* Enables use of pitch axis for braking on ground (below 35kts)

#### New in 1.4.10: use833
* Default ``false``
* Enables 8.33kHz frequency spacing in TCPs and COMM

#### New in 1.5.0: acarsRemoteServer
* Default ``"http://www.hoppie.nl/acars/system/connect.html"``
* Remote serve for ACARS, default public HOPPIE, although supports both local HOPPIE and other HOPPIE-compatible remotes

#### New in 1.5.0: acarsEnabled
* Default ``false``
* Enables ACARS system using HOPPIE in COMM

#### New in 1.5.0: acarsLogonCode
* Default ``""``
* Personal HOPPIE logon code

## liverySettings.json
This file contains user settings, that are stored on a per-livery basis. This file will only be overritten by the updater for default liveries. Only settings that are defined below are able to be used by the settings system.
### Structure
```json
{
     "comments": [
        "This settings file is the settings file for the default livery"
    ],
    "airlineConfig": {
        
        "gpwsCallouts": {
            "40": false,
            "10": false,
            "50": false,
            "2500": false,
            "400": false,
            "1000": false,
            "500": false,
            "20": false,
            "30": false,
            "100": false,
            "200": false,
            "300": false
        },
        "pmCallouts": {
            "400": false,
            "1000": false,
            "1000Stabilized": false,
            "rotate": false,
            "1000ToGo": false,
            "80kts": false,
            "v1": false
        },
        "defaultBaroHpa": true,
        "useMetersL": false,
        "defaultWeightKgs": false,
        "icaoId": "4071C0",
        "tailNumber": "G-TUIA",
        "selcalCode": "HLGR",
        "useMetersR": false,
        "airlineId": "BAW",
        "cabinSoundpack": "default",
        "headingHorizon": false,
        "useRREngines": false,
        "pfdAOAIndicator": false,
        "liveryVersion": 0,
        "satcomDishDisabled": true,
    }
}
```

### comments
* This is an array of freetext, that is ignored by the aircraft when the file is loaded.

### airlineConfig
* Contains settings that are imported to the aircraft's livery settings table on load.

#### New in 1.4.0: GPWS callouts
* Sub-object for GPWS callouts
* Defaults to ``500, 50, 30, 10``

!!! warning
    Not backwards compatible with aircraft versions < 1.3.0

#### New in 1.4.0: PM callouts
* Sub-object for Pilot Monitoring callouts
* Defaults to ``400, 1000, rotate, 80kts, v1``

!!! warning
    Not backwards compatible with aircraft versions < 1.3.0

#### defaultBaroHpa
* Default ``true`` 
* Controls whether the baro is by default set to HPA (``true``) or inHg (``false``)

#### useMetersL
* Default ``false`` 
* Controls whether the aircraft systems are set to use meters for altitude or not
* Affects left PFD/HUD/MFDs/Autopilot

#### useMetersR
* Default ``false`` 
* Controls whether the aircraft systems are set to use meters for altitude or not
* Affects right PFD/HUD/MFDs/Autopilot

#### defaultWeightKgs
* Default ``true`` 
* Controls whether weights are shown in kilograms (``true``) or lbs (``false``)

#### icaoId
* Default ``"4071C0"`` 
* ICAO mode S transponder code

#### tailNumber
* Default ``"G-TUIK"`` 
* Aircraft's tail number/registration

#### selcalCode
* Default ``"HLGR"``
* Selcal code used for identification with CPDLC/HF systems in VATSIM mode.
* Format is ``AABB`` with no ``-``

#### airlineId
* Default ``"TOM"``
* ICAO airline type code, used for internal systems

#### New in 1.4.2: cabinSoundpack
* Default ``"default"``
* Changes the soundpack id used for the CABIN PA
* Value is name of folder in ``787/soundpacks/[name]/``

#### New in 1.4.12: headingHorizon
* Default ``false``
* Enables the company option for a heading display on the artifical horizon

#### New in 1.5.0: useRREngines
* Default ``false``
* Enables RR engines

#### New in 1.5.0: pfdAOAIndicator
* Default ``false``
* Enables the company option for a PFD AOA indicator

#### New in 1.5.0: satcomDishDisabled
* Default ``true``
* Enables the company option for SATCOM dish on the top of the fuselage

#### New in 1.5.0: liveryVersion
* Default ``0``
* Sets the version that the livery is designed against, using the following options:

##### 0
* 1.4.0 GE engines or 1.5.0 RR engines, 1.4.0 fuselage

##### 1
* 1.5.0 GE engines or 1.5.0 RR engines, 1.4.0 fuselage





